Now that we have our daily average energy consumption data,
it's time to turn this into time series that DeepAR can use as training data.
Looking at this data,
I made a couple of design decisions.
I've decided to create three time series of data for
our three full years of data: 2007, 2008, and 2009.
I'll train a model on this data,
and then withhold 2010 as a test set,
which I can use later to evaluate the model.
In a real-world scenario,
you'll likely want to use all of your data and not withhold any time series data.
So this is strictly for demonstrative purposes.
In general, the methods I use can be
modified slightly to create different kinds of time series.
I'll also be showing you one other way to evaluate
a DeepAR model without withholding data.
I've written a function,
make_time_series which will make a three-year long time series.
It takes in our mean_power_data frame and a past n list of years.
So let's take a look at this code.
A few details, I'm going to set a starting index at 16,
which is where my 2007 data starts.
I only had a couple of weeks of data from 2006.
Then I also know that 2008 was a leap year.
So I'm going to note that here and make sure I
calculate the correct number of days to move through the data frame with.
Now, all of the time series we create will start at a consistent time point,
t_start or sometimes called t _zero.
DeepAR uses this time point as a frame of reference,
taking into account time frames like weeks or a year since
the start point to learn
long-term recurrent patterns like that summer is different than winter.
You can change t_start and t_end to define the length of the time series you create.
I'm also getting the data from
our mean_power_data frame within this time frame from t_start to t_end.
Here I'm creating a time series by passing in the time indices and the relevant data.
I'm appending this to my list of time series.
After this four loop completes,
I should have my list of three yearly time series.
I can test my results by running my code.
Passing in my mean_power_data frame,
the number of full years I want to create time series out of,
and then displaying the first time series.
So here I can see power usage over a year.
I see that winter usage hovers around 1.5 and has a lot of volatility.
Similar values are a bit lower.
Next, we'll split this data into training and test sets,
a test that gives us a way to evaluate our model.
For machine learning tasks like classification,
we typically create training and test data
by randomly splitting examples into different sets.
But for forecasting, it's important to do the split in time.
In general, we can create training data by taking each of
our complete time series and leaving off the last prediction length,
length of data points.
This will be your first task.
Complete the function, create_training_series,
which takes in a list of complete time series like we just created,
and creates a different list of
training time series that have the n prediction length points left off.
In this example, I want to predict about a month of energy consumption data over time.
So in the next cells,
you can test out your code by applying it to
our time series and a prediction length of 30 days.
If you get stuck and want to check your work,
you can check out the solution in the next code example.